---
title: "DeepC2: AI-Powered Covert Command and Control on OSNs"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2022-09-06-ICICS_DeepC2
venue: "24th International Conference on Information and Communications Security (ICICS 2022)"
date: 2022-09-06
location: "University of Kent, Canterbury, UK (Virtual)"
---

This is the presentation about the 
[DeepC2 paper](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15777-6_22) on 
[ICICS 2022](https://icics2022.cyber.kent.ac.uk/). 

Command and control (C&C) is important in an attack. Currently, some attackers 
use online social networks (OSNs) as the C&C channel to publish the commands. 
However, the attackers face two problems. First, the way for bots to find the 
botmaster (addressing) is hardcoded in the bot program. The defenders will 
know how to find the botmaster if a bot is reverse-engineered. Then the 
botmaster will be exposed before the commands are published. Second, the 
commands are abnormal contents on OSNs, which may trigger restrictions on the 
attacker's accounts, making the bots cannot get the commands. This paper 
proposes an AI-powered covert C&C channel that can resolve the above two 
problems. 

For the first one, we use a neural network (NN) for addressing. The neural 
network is poorly explainable. Defenders cannot predict the attacker's 
accounts before the commands are published. We use the NN model to recognize 
the attacker's avatars. The avatars are extracted as feature vectors, and the 
bots are published with the vectors. The bots will calculate the distances 
between the Twitter user's avatars and the vectors to find the botmaster. The 
bots and their botmaster meet under a trending topic. They choose a topic 
synchronously. Then the botmaster posts tweets under the topic, and the bots 
will crawl them. If the bots find the botmaster, they can get the commands 
from the tweets. 

For the second one, we use data augmentation and hash collision to generate 
contextual and readable contents that contain the commands. After choosing a 
topic, the attacker will crawl the tweets under the topic. Then, the attacker 
will get numerous new tweets using data augmentation methods. The 
tweets are used to calculate hashes. The attacker split a command into 
two-byte chunks. The corresponding tweet will be selected if a chunk is equal 
to the first two bytes of one hash value. If all chunks of a command collide, 
the attacker posts the tweets to the topic. After the bots get the 
tweets, they need to calculate the hashes to get the commands.

It is worth noting that we do not aim to inspire malware authors to write 
more efficient malware but to demonstrate an upward threat. Therefore, we will 
share the method but choose the semi-open source for only security 
researchers and vendors. If you want to see the implementation of DeepC2, it is 
welcome to send a request to us. 
